do you want to learn how guesting on
podcasts can not only improve your
organic seo and google rankings but also
build up your industry reputation then
stay tuned
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't done yet check out our
weekly email where we share actual
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus resources and much much
more each and every monday to start your
week off with a bang sign up over at
business growth dot email so today's
episode is all about how you can guest
on industry specific podcasts to improve
your brand reputation improve your
thought leadership and also improve your
seo your google organic rankings and
this can work across nearly any industry
as what you'll find is there's podcasts
on many many topics which are about to
dive into where you can be a guest you
can share your industry expertise
share useful tips and over time become a
thought leader in your sector
help improve your google rankings and
get more inbound leads and sales your
way
all right so let's jump straight into
the strategy so first off you want to
head on to a website called
chartable.com which is an awesome site
actually it's gonna list you the top
charts for podcasts across all different
industries and locations it's great if
you run a podcast too because you can
create an account understand your stats
where you stand in the charts your
downloads your reviews and all that good
stuff i actually use it for business
growth show all the time anyway let's
jump straight in you want to go to the
menu navigation you want to hit on the
charts link
i usually click apple podcast charts
link from that because apple tends to be
the majority shareholder of most
podcasts and then you can choose a
country country-wise i'm choosing great
britain but
i could choose us or anywhere else as
there's podcasts listening to most shows
all over
so choose your country and you can run
through a few countries if you serve
different audiences locations
go to left tab under podcasts so let's
say i'm doing it for my business web
choice so i'm probably going to choose
the marketing tab
so i choose marketing and that's going
to list me the top hundred perhaps more
podcasts under marketing
so
straight away there's a few that i
recognize and we've got neil patel's
we've got amy porterfield and a bunch of
other anyway so let's look at
these charts for example i'm going to
click on making money online which with
lisa johnson which is ranking one right
now number one in the math team podcast
for apple for the uk on the right hand
side under links you can see her website
address
so i'll click that
and then we want to look out for a way
to reach her so i'm going to click her
media link on her menu nav
and if i scroll right down on her site
there's an option to get in touch so
in this case i'm gonna send her a quick
email pitch to see if i can go on a show
and that might look something like this
a simple subject line it could be
podcast or it could be
maybe something
for something a bit different unusual
digital marketing podcast idea as the
subject line just as a bit more of a
hook
and then
we'll address it hey lisa's
team as
we'll find it's the bigger organizations
might have a team
as they've addressed it to
mary which i guess is on her team and
some podcasts you might be able to email
directly to the owner of the show
depending on the size of their
organization you might have a direct
email on their website or a contact form
so what you want to do is try and be
crispy here try and personalize it a bit
so maybe listen to our latest podcast
and
give a quick tip or quick insight that
you enjoyed on it so it's a bit more
personal
love episode
let's say x maybe it was 200
where you shared
why so showing that we've taken the time
to listen to a quick episode which only
take a few minutes
words
he denied it
on your show
to share
a different
approach to inverting
these with your website or
dark arts of seo
opposed to uh convey question mark so
i've put haley's team loved episode x
where you shared why delighted to jump
on your show to share a different
approach to converting leads to your
website or to simplify the dark arts of
seo
open to a convo so it's a very brief
snappy email basically saying the first
line loved episode x we shared why
sharing a quick insight taking off that
i've taken the time to look at that show
she had a quick couple ideas on topics
and then i haven't gone from meeting
straight away i've just said are you
against discussing further so uh
relatively open call to action or an
alternative way that you can use to
contact show hosts
is to go to their social profiles so
for example
we've got neil patel that's number six
in the podcast charts uk for marketing
so we can go to his linkedin i know nils
on linkedin so if i type in neil patel
in the search bar on linkedin click on
that go to his profile
and then if i go to connect
connect again add a personalized note
you're limited to the amount of
characters when you send a personalized
request on linkedin so i'll just put
something short and snappy hey neil
love the insights
of the insights you share on digital
marketing
i would love to come on the podcast and
share
usual
[Music]
ways
to convert more leads with your website
or
simplifying
the dark art of seo
opposed to learning more question marks
a short snappy message depending on what
you do you can just give a quick insight
on what you like about a show
a couple ideas of what you could bring
to the table and a simple call to action
are you opposed to a learning more are
you open to that anymore so we've sent
off so that's two ways that you can
reach out to podcast guests podcast
hosts rather and then what you can do
is slowly work your way through the
chart so if you just do maybe five
outreaches 10 outreaches a day it's only
going to take you a few minutes going
onto their website grabbing that email
sending them a short snappy email
manage it on a spreadsheet so then you
can see your progress you can follow up
with them in a few days if you don't get
a reply likewise on linkedin
it's also a good way to connect with
them as well and then you'll start
getting accepted so you'll start getting
onto shows
then you can record the the juicy
episode share your insights and once
you've done that that is when you can of
course get in front of their audience so
you're getting in front of people that
are actively interested in my case
marketing so i can share that audience i
can build thought leadership reputation
in my industry the more and more shows
that i go on and bearing in mind a lot
of posts will share them on social media
on email lists to build up that
following get a lot of exposure your way
and over time you will get inbound
inquiries but onto the seo point
when you've recorded your episode with
their host
if you ask them if you've got a target
keyword that you're looking to rank on
google for example web choice one of
ours might be web development company
we um we ask the hosts when we go on
shows to do a back link to our site so
here's a quick example i was recently on
landbot's un-gated marketing podcast
and they gave me a back link they
actually back linked to my linkedin and
they backlinked our company web choice
so there's two in one two hits in one
i've built up the thought leadership by
being on a marketing podcast and i've
also got a link back to my website which
helps my organic seo to improve our
positioning on google and there you have
it i hope this episode on how to benefit
from guesting on podcasts has been of
use as always if you enjoyed the show a
quick rating on your podcast channel is
much appreciated or if you're on youtube
a quick subscribe i'd be very very
thankful for and with that i should
catch you on the next one cheers